---
title: "Everything's Settled Now"
date: "2023-11-12"
---
This is an excerpt from my personal diary, as “diary” suggests, it’s probably too personal and too verbose. Hence, this Medium story came into being.

As any other fresh grad has gone through, I, albeit unwillingly, inevitably face the challenge of securing a job before graduation. I myself have not been caring about jobs that much, to be honest. I have lived a YOLO life during uni and have pretty much isolated myself from the crowd and prevented self-judgment based on society’s general standard. But still, a job will come in handy to provide for the basic needs. When it comes to job hunt, I held three metrics to help with decision: role, company, pay; if any 1.5 of the 3 metrics are satisfied, I would take the job — where do the metrics come from? I honesty can’t remember, probably from some YouTube video or some Medium story like this one. But this is some good standards I guess.

See, the thing is, the last two is pretty straightforward. But role? I didn’t know better back then. I didn’t know what I wanna do. For me, a job is a job, it puts food on the table. I thought no matter what I do, I might love it, or might hate it. After getting more experiences, I still think this is very true.

Upon graduation, I was confused. As I’m not sure what I wanna do, all sorts of graduate programs felt like good options in sight. Managed to land some offers with graduate programs but when it came to decision, I was too hesitant to take them, and eventually rejected all of them ’cause I knew pretty damn well that, if I were to take those offers, it’s not because I wanted them, but because I didn’t have better options. (I mean, I didn’t even know what I want in the first place!)

And then, due to personal reasons, I decided to screw all this and spend time with my family. And after 4 months with my family, here I am. Although the long ass paragraphs above are talking about jobs, it’s not the topic today. The existence of this Medium story is to share how grateful I am for being unemployed for the past 4 months. The benefits I received is life changing, whatever grad programs or job offers can provide don’t even come close.

The first aspect is that, books have been picked up. I have always wanted to read more. I enjoy reading a lot. Years ago I’d spend at least 30 min daily reading. Not hard to imagine how the habit has gone. Due to, well, all sorts of reasons in life, I have not picked up a book to really read for years. Back at home, without any distractions, be it school/work/friends/alcohol, it became unbelievably easy to start reading. But staying focus is tremendously hard, ’cause my brain has been fed too much instant content on social media and the whole dopamine chemistry worked its magic, my attention span was so short than I couldn’t read at all. It took at least one week of one hour of reading daily for me to really enjoy reading again. The benefits of finally building up this habit is indescribable. I’m so glad that I have had the awareness of the importance of reading. All the famous names, such as Atomic Habits and Rich Dad Poor Dad, have finally been ticked off from my list. The purpose of this story is not to share about reading, hence I would not go into too much details. But reading, man, is really the best way to help one find a clue for his life. It builds an information-seeking mindset in me. And I can’t afford to let life interrupt this habit now, giving up this habits costs too much. It’s easily become the non-negotiable in life, like working out.

Second is that alcohol is dropped. I have my history with alcohol, although not long, it has accompanied me through some rough days. At the peak of it I was drinking one beer a day, which doesn’t sound too bad to be fair, but it took me some time to realize that it’s well qualified as an addiction. Being stuck in the solitary of the 4 months, I didn’t have that much interactions with friends/work/school, basically I lived like a monk, not much fun, not much responsibilities, not much stress. If it’s not for the 4 months, if I had taken a job offer and started working straight after graduation, I wouldn’t see a change in it. I would probably still treat alcohol as some form of relaxation or celebration or however you call it (that’s how the society currently is now, right? When it comes to some celebratory events, we’d just pop a bottle of alcohol). I have always been aware of the problem lying in the relationship between, not just me but also the society, and alcohol now. I’ve seen people saying “I can’t fall asleep and some alcohol would help”. To me that statement just sounds kinda f-up now, after what I’ve gone through with it. That being said, don’t get me wrong, I’m not in support of abstinence either. I’d gladly join family for a glass of wine at dinner table, or chugging pints at pubs, or getting hammered at parties. There’s nothing wrong or bad about the act of drinking itself. What’s wrong is the mindset of treating it like some sort of escapism. That was me. And I’m beyond grateful to announce that, the days are gone.

Third is the long walks and deep talks with Mom. There is a newly-built, soon-to-open-to-traffic highway not far away from the house. It’s nothing there, as you can imagine, just an endless highway stretching possibly hundreds of kilometers. It’s quiet, and eerily beautiful with its emptiness and sometimes embellished with sunset. I’ve been going there for walks with Mom at least once a week, with family dog running along the highway until he gets bored. This kind of chance doesn’t come often, and it’s only gonna be less and less. Before getting fully chained to a full time job with pitiful annual leaves, I am more than lucky to have to chance to just really enjoy my time with Mom. Sometimes we talk for hours, sometimes we talk less. Standing in the crossroads of life like I was then, having a family that trusts and supports you 100% is the best thing you can ask for. It goes both ways. Mom has her own complaint in life. I believe having her own son as the listener means invaluable for her, too.

Everything else happened during the 4 months was also blessings in disguise. And as mentioned above, if I had taken a job right after graduation, without this period of time, I would still be who I was. The scary part of it is, while you’re in there, you don’t see the problem. When you live your life without a clue, you don’t know that you don’t have a clue, you’d think you do. I’m, once again, grateful that everything has turned out great, in fact, way better than I would have imagined.
