---
title: "I Don't Want Those Yearly Trips"
date: "2023-12-16"
---
As I was about to type down this, a quick check of my social feeds gave further inspiration of the following writing and the title — I don’t want those yearly trips. As I started to move into working adult life, more and more friends and acquaintances, now myself, have gotten into the cycle of employment life: work for majority of the waking hours and spending the rest trying to recover from the working hours. There really isn’t much personal time as there’s definitely a substantial amount of time after work, but there isn’t much energy to fill the time. I might have unnecessarily added some unintended negative undertone, wrongfully implying that I don’t like to be employed. Well, I don’t like the idea of being employed. (This is getting messy, I’m not saying I like the idea of being unemployed either lol) Let me try to do it justice, what I mean I don’t like the idea of being employed: I don’t like being awake and feeling forced to do the work, just to get a paycheck. I don’t like the idea of being a corporate slave. Robert Kiyosaki has put this abstract idea of mine into words in Rich Dad Poor Dad, which in return has reinforced this idea of mine.

On the complete opposite, I would LOVE to work nonstop, and I mean it. I would love to have a goal that I would just decide to live my life so intentionally to achieve the goal, and working nonstop would contribute to the said goal. I am in a phase of life where it’s filled of ambitions, positivities, and ideas. A chill work isn’t a match with my mindset now. And a chill work isn’t really a bad thing if I manage to utilize the time outside of work, which, of course, solely depends on whether I am able to utilize the time outside of work.

Come back to the topic that digressed two paragraphs ago: I checked my phone, and saw people planning for their annual year-end trips. The moment of realization came: I don’t want that. Like, I don’t want those yearly trips, AT ALL. The idea is similar to what’s mentioned above. I don’t wanna spend the only free time outside of work just to recover from work; I don’t wanna work the whole year while only catch a breather during those trips. That doesn’t feel too fulfilling to me, in the aspect of both career, and life outside of career. I consider myself lucky to revel in the joyful lunacy of relentless work towards a goal, as well as the blissful utopia of fun and travel. Maybe I just hold an extreme perspective on this matter.

I don’t want those yearly trip, not in a way that I don’t enjoy going on trips, but in a way that I wanna be working on something. I wanna have this thing that I would rather be working on than taking on trips. I wanna have this thing that I rather work on after work than watching all those Netflix shows. AND I WANT IT TO PAY FOR MY YEARLY TRIPS!

I don’t want those yearly trips, with an emphasis on ‘those’, being the trips you use as a mental support to fight through work. The burning desire for those trips reflect a life that’s most likely saturated with unfulfilling work. I don’t envy those who takes trips all year round, I envy those who work all year round voluntarily! I envy those who derive so much satisfaction from their jobs that they prefer working over indulging in leisure travel!
