---
title: "Mornings Are Underrated"
date: "2024-01-06"
---

I have been waking at a reasonably early hour (nothing too crazy but definitely considered an unholily early hour for my past self) for the past few months now, since July 23 to be exact. I have been enjoying waking up early as mentioned in a previous post. The biggest "enjoyable factor" is, before starting doing actual work, there's plenty of time for doing personal stuff, like reading and some self learning. This feels great - having done loads of things before the day even starts. Mornings are such an underrated period of time: quiet, the impeccable solitude, no distraction, instagram hasn't awakened yet, full tank of energy, focus at its sharpest, willpower at its max, and the no tiredness, no bs from the day just yet, and because technically the day hasn't started for most people yet, it means there's absolute no need to deal with any unpleasant work/school/family or anything stress-inducing. Unarguably the best time of a day, especially for someone with a 9-to-5 that requires them to allocate at least eight hours of their day time to get a paycheck. After eight hours of bs at work, and possibly long commutes, it's very hard to utilize the time after the work. Don't get me wrong, there's plenty of time after work; say from 8pm to 12pm, that's a solid 4-hour window to do whatever one would like to do. But time isn't an issue, time always isn't for those who don't find non-sensible excuses; just that after the day has depleted one of energy, focus and willpower, it's only common and humane to wanna just lie down in bed chill. It's rather hard and make less sense to do anything hard, anything that requires willpower, focus and energy.

Most people don't experience the benefits of getting up early because either: A, they do not wanna do anything hard, which applies to my old self, or B, they think it's not for them, which applies to my old self, again. Being in Cat A, I know how it feels to always retreat to comfort - either not having a goal, or failing to see a need to change, or failing to change; being in Cat B, I know we people call ourselves night owls - and sometimes for no reason even take pride for it by loudly announcing that we're gonna do or have done something that keep us awake at an hour that no human should be awake for health reasons (potentially thinking it's cool to stay up, as some part of our subconscious has not grown at all since when we're 10). We deem ourselves the opposite of a morning person, only able to be productive after 12am, the whole "early bird gets the worms" thing just "don't work for us".

The truth is, most people just haven't reached the state for it to be beneficial, or built the habit of getting up early before they draw the conclusion that it's not for them and eventually give up ("eventually" makes it sound like there's a substantial amount of struggle during the process of giving up when there's actually none). They would try it for one morning when the motivation hits, or three if they're really faithful, one week being the max, then the conclusion is drawn. Well, if you haven't gotten used to it, of course you're gonna feel like a pile of fan-hitting shit when you make an attempt to wake up early, or earlier than you are used to. It takes years to cure cancer, 1 or 5 or 10 chemo won't do; changing a decade-long habit is not less hard than the gradual process of cancer treatment. In a world where even credit card promos takes a minimum of 30 days to deliver signup bonus, a bit peculiar to think that a sudden disruption to your sleep schedule is gonna magically make you feel good the next day, don't you think?

Scientifically, it's indeed not for everyone. It's written down in your genes whether you perform the best when the sun is up or down. But that same scientific also suggests that the majority has a circadian rhythm as the sun. Even if a specific sequence of your DNA says you are more performant at night, it makes no sense to sleep so late that it deprives you of at least 7 hours of sleep, causing you grumpy the next day. And we are social animals, team meetings could be 9AM, sales presentations could be 9AM, exams could be 9AM. It's only better if we could get up early so the brain is fully awake for the 9AMs. I mean, really, life is probably a lot harder for those who are truly genetic-determined night owl. Imagine you are biologically restricted, only capable of being productive after 10PM, how challenging it's gonna be to fit in a world where your boss can legally call you up for work at 9AM. What's harder than that kind of life is a life where you call yourself a night owl, attempting to make peace with you staying up and stressing about how "early" you'll need to wake up the next day, and swearing you'll sleep early some day while waiting for that day to come, and at the same time knowing clearly that the cycle has repeated for years and even decades.

It's redundant to draft another paragraph with some references to all sorts of medical research papers to demonstrate how staying up impairs the brain, because we all know it does, and we all know the solution. Yet the very organ being harm is taking no action against the harmful behavior.

One year ago, i was awake at 7AM; 6 months ago, i was sleeping at 7AM; today i have gotten up, run, watched how the city awakes itself, and made myself a breakfast by 7AM. The city is an interesting place before sun rise. There's upper class running and cycling and chatting with their posh accents; and lower class ending night shifts, starting early shifts, taking naps on benches between shifts. Being the laziest POS among my friend groups throughout uni, I am grateful that I've realized a need to change, and am capable of making the change, and have made the change. The change is neither a key to great achievements, nor any sorts of achievements itself. To me it plainly is a self-defined symbol that symbolize personal betterment. After all, life is easier to carry on when you know you are a better person than you were yesterday.
