---
title: "Ups and Downs"
date: "2024-04-26"
---
Now I am at a phase where life seems to be at its downs. "Life" is a strong word here. Life has been pretty decent, definitely not at its downs. But my motivation is.

Not trying to find any excuses to justify the lack of motivation whatsoever. I am only sorting through events that happened within the last month, in hopes of gaining some mental clarity. 

April feels different. Life started to get messy since the start of it. Although it's already the end, I still haven't felt settled. To be fair, I did set myself up for a different start. Got violently wasted at the end of March. That was the plan for a friend's birthday. What's not the plan was letting my guard down regarding the air-con. Slept right under its blowing for the whole night, got hot and cold over and over again, woke up feeling how hangover is supposed to feel, with a nice touch of the onset of a cold. Getting sick sucks, it sucks more when all this happened in the midst of moving house. 
The moving was unexpected. A curve-ball-y decision from the landlord and agent. Not a bad decision to my housing situation. Even kind of a good one as it's just what I wanted and needed. Wanted to say it's a bad timing but really it was neither a good or a bad one. And I moved, in three day's notice, to a room half the size. The clutter and mess after moving piling up on a tiny desk and scattering on floor contributed to the sickness of a cold. A bed half the size wasn't the best for tossing and turning either. I don't mind the downsizing at all, but surely it still takes time to adapt.
For the over a decade, given my background of staying in boarding school, a room feels nothing more a place to sleep. Despite my determination to change, it's only factual that a good chunk of my time with a conscious mind isn't spent in my room. While sitting in office, other than me scaring colleagues with some intense coughing, some other drastic changes were happening too. Mentor and boss were leaving. Resignations were submitted and one month countdown started. 
I don't know how well I was digesting this piece of info. I still don't know how well I am digesting it now. They are the ones that appreciate my competency the most. Given their positions, it's no exaggeration to say that they determine my career progression in the near future. Well, not anymore though, shit. There's some good news along the way too. But without them, the good news isn't exactly good, it's just a news that presents an opportunity, I guess. When I'm not careful enough, the good news finds a way to cast a shade of anxiety over my mind. 
The work itself was - unsurprisingly, as that's how life always goes - getting hectic at the same time. I was supposed to get my hands on stress testing, which is completely new to me and definitely excited me. Before I could even notice, the team needed to rush it and someone more experienced just took over. That's not really an issue, I'd just be doing whatever I've been doing. But I couldn't. The reason they were rushing the stress testing, was also the culprit that I had to rush something else, which just made my work messy and me feel meaningless doing it. 
Something that's also unusual was a trip was planned after that week. In a pretty hectic manner, I packed and hopped on the flight. The trip was something unusual too. It, on the other hand, was unusual in a good way. Though not being super excited about the trip at the beginning, it went way above expectation. It is the kinds of events that fall into a category where you wouldn't regret not doing them if you never ever did them, but you know you'd regret not doing them only after you've done them.

After getting back, it was already mid April, and suffering of the serotonin plunge came as expected. After two more days of being sluggish, and after finally getting essentials for the new room, life got back on track for a bit, or at least shifted towards that direction.  Of course, there's always a "but". Work became a bit more hectic once more. Due to the organizational change, individuals with higher positions in the corporate hierarchy whose names only come into view during all-hands department meetings visited the SG office for a business trip. Basically led to me busy getting overwhelmed with mental stress of standing out, while already being overwhelmed with concurrent projects. The standing out part and the project part weren't going particularly well, hate to say.

But finally, the week seems to be reaching its end. With a thousand-people meeting playing on in the background, I am jotting this down. For the first time, I have been desperate for the weekend to come. Maybe this 'finally' is too early. Maybe this coming weekend isn't gonna be any different. But I've been wanting to press the hard reset button for too long, yet been finding excuses not to hard reset. Another weekend, another chance to press it. Another chance to succeed and regain motivation, or another chance to fail and try again.
And maybe I'm just setting myself up for failure, which I might have been doing already. A kind reminder to myself, it's not all or nothing. Could be a good day, or a bad day. Or just a day, a regular day. It's not all or nothing, it's something or nothing. 
