---
title: "You are in complete control of your life"
date: "2023-12-30"
---
With a strong title like this, let me preface by saying, there definitely are times when life is out of control, and sometimes even in the control of other people, or heavily depending on other human beings. It’s not easy to see through and admit that this kind of scenario happens way less than we might think, and most likely we will all have some degrees of control over a situation that involves us.
Problem between “life” and “control” lies in failure to see that we are in control, inability to fully understand what it means to be in control and apply it to daily behavior and goal pursuing, putting blames on external factors and empower others to have control over us.

You are in complete control of your life. This is a simple idea yet so hard to have a deep understanding of it. I have had my struggles and despair before having an understanding of my own and feeling comfortable enough to write this down.

Lately I’m filled with positivity most of the days and looking forward to life, with a positive attitude to fighting my own flaws. Just being able to declare that “I’m filled with positivity” somehow feels empowering.
Mentally I am already in a better place now, and it’s time to pick up what I have been missing out on life, and to take control. For the past few years, during uni, I have mainly been living life on auto-pilot. Not thinking about what’s the next step for myself. I was fine with it. In fact, I was so fine with it that I convinced myself that’s the right thing to do, and encouraged myself, and even others, to do so. Of course, back then I didn’t perceive it as “auto-pilot”, the concept of being on “auto-pilot” didn’t even occur to me. The wordings were a lot nicer in my own head. With no preinstalled judgment, auto-pilot or not, it’s essentially just different mindsets towards life. When we are holding a specific attitude towards life, it’s so hard to see its downsides; and even if we managed to see them, might still fail to see a need for change, or convince ourselves to change, not to mention it’s incredibly hard to change one’s mindset. Yet every change has to happen from the mind for it to take effect, especially when the change is forcing us out of the comfort zone.

In other words, I didn’t have a goal, I probably didn’t even think that much about having a goal. When the topic does come up in a convo, the only thing I felt was the hostility against the goal of “making money” coming out from others’ mouths. Nobody hates money. But its shallowness just gave me the idea that pursuing that goal is too superficial and frivolous, too much that it’s like a personality flaw which I look down upon. Especially when salary was the only thing they were talking about, it clearly didn’t help with me building a proper attitude towards money and goals. I made the decision to remain aloof to the crowd — easy decision, takes no effort, simply avoiding the topic and certain demographic. Going against the crowd, I was promoting the idea of, put into one word, YOLO. I did what I like, didn’t think that much about it. The meaningful parts of my philosophy consist of music, sports and building up social skills; and the rest, are dedicated to senseless activities. And really, now that I think about it, no recollection of what my days were like. Netflix and YouTube sucked away a huge chunk of time, and it was such a controversial point of contention. I didn’t think they were doing any harm. On the contrary, I think they have made some significant contributions to various aspects of my personal development — probably made me a more interesting person, helped with the language, and influenced, in a good way, my perception of the world. And the rest for which I really couldn’t find any justification were just a series of auto-pilots that were rooted from poor time management and a lack of goals.

I was in control, and I was fully aware of doing whatever I was doing, making conscious decisions and being able to justify and convince myself to make peace with it. I did not have a clear understanding of “I’m in control of my life” that would truly resonates and motivates me. And as a result, I just drifted away with life — whatever happens, I react to it, only taking initiatives in some very limited areas, leading inevitably to the inaction in rest of life. I was consciously in control when I was making the decisions. What I failed to see is that, I am the one living my life, I am in complete control of my life, and I would be the one who puts into effort to bring things into fruition and enjoys the harvest, and the one who assumes the responsibilities and bears the consequences.

The idea is stupidly simple, and everyone has their own understanding of it. I am only able to keep on developing my understanding of it.
“In complete control of one’s life” is an exaggeration. There were multiple times when my life was heavily dependent on another person’s action. The situation seemed to be helpless, and I seemed to be helpless, and allowed myself to not take any actions. It’s was so easy to put the blame on others and choose inaction. When the blame is not on me, I just didn’t think about how I could change the situation, how I could do better, how I could help myself out. And I could make peace with it, because I would conveniently not blame myself. And I go on to tell the story again and again to myself and others, until I once again convinced myself. The only problem though, again, is I failed to see that I would be the one suffering from my own inaction.

Putting the blame onto yourself makes it much easier to see that, even in cases when you are not in 100% control of life, you are still in complete control of your own behavior, reaction and moods. By blaming others, you are removing yourself from the equation, and at the same time disabling yourself to make a change while empowering others to have an excessive amount of impact on your behaviors, mind and moods. Why would we give so much power to the outside world over ourselves? ’Cause by conveniently thinking that others are affecting our lives in an uncontrollable way, whatever disaster happens, we are not the one to blame, we are safe morally — we are really the unsafest one in reality ironically. To truly have control over our own life, put the blame on us and solely us, which allows accountability, reflection, and improvement.

The downward spiral easy to fall into when we think that we’re in no control, is that the brain’s going to pick up whatever evidence it needs to support that idea. We are then entrapped in this vicious cycle: think that we have no control — every frustrating encounter becomes supporting materials — concretizes the idea that we have no control and no action taken to make a change. This is a powerful loop of the mind, which depletes itself of willpower and discipline. Chronically being in such an ill state of mind, our brains get rusty through disuse, making it only more and more challenging to break out and revert to a normal state. Then the avoidance of pain comes into play. Potential discomfort becomes increasingly daunting. We fall into the behavioral pattern of constantly seeking comfort, and this aversion to discomfort further reinforces the mindset of powerlessness, leading to further inaction…
